feat(angular): Replace "Getting Started" with Wizard Quick Start and Manual Setup pages (#13472)
getsentry/sentry-docs: docs/platforms/javascript/guides/angular/manual-setup.mdx

---
title: Manual Setup
sidebar_order: 1

> description: "Learn how to set up the Sentry Angular SDK manually."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: "Learn how to manually set up Sentry in your Angular app and capture your first errors."
```

---

> If you can't (or prefer not to) run the <PlatformLink to="/#install">automatic setup</PlatformLink>, you can follow the instructions below to configure the Sentry Angular SDK in your application. This guide is also useful to adjust the pre-set configuration if you used the installation wizard for automatic setup.

Reviewer: Let's add an alert above this paragraph recommending to use the wizard, like here: https://docs.sentry.io/platforms/javascript/guides/nuxt/manual-setup/

This is helpful to users who haven't visited the Wizard quick start guide yet and are just looking to get started

> If you can't (or prefer not to) run the <PlatformLink to="/#install">automatic setup</PlatformLink>, you can follow the instructions below to configure the Sentry Angular SDK in your application. This guide is also useful to adjust the pre-set configuration if you used the installation wizard for automatic setup.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you can't (or prefer not to) use the installation wizard, you can follow the instructions below to configure the Sentry Angular SDK in your application. This guide is also useful to adjust the pre-set configuration if you used the installation wizard for automatic setup.
```

Reviewer: if we add the Alert above, we no longer need the link here 👍

<PlatformContent includePath="getting-started-prerequisites" />

## Step 1: Install

Choose the features you want to configure, and this guide will show you how:

<OnboardingOptionButtons options={["error-monitoring", "performance", "session-replay"]} />

<PlatformContent includePath="getting-started-features-expandable" />

### Install the Sentry SDK

```bash {tabTitle:npm}
npm install @sentry/angular --save
```

```bash {tabTitle:yarn}
yarn add @sentry/angular
```

```bash {tabTitle:pnpm}
pnpm add @sentry/angular
```

> <Expandable title="Angular Version Compatibility" permalink="true" level="warning">

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<Expandable title="Which SDK version should you use with your Angular version?" permalink="true" level="warning">
```

Reviewer: -> a suggestion to better show what is inside the Expandable.

\* These versions of the SDK are no longer maintained or tested. Version 7 might still receive bug fixes but we don't guarantee support.

#### What is `@sentry/angular-ivy`?

The `@sentry/angular-ivy` package was an Ivy-compatible version of `@sentry/angular` in version 7 of the SDK. It's recommended to use this package if you're using Angular 12 or 13 to avoid build-time warnings.
Functionality-wise, it's identical to `@sentry/angular` and you can simply replace all imports of `@sentry/angular` with `@sentry/angular-ivy` in our docs.
Since version 8, `@sentry/angular-ivy` was <PlatformLink to="/migration/v7-to-v8/#supported-versions">removed and merged</PlatformLink> with `@sentry/angular` which is now Ivy-compatible by default.

</Expandable>

If you're updating your Sentry SDK to the latest version, check out our [migration guide](https://github.com/getsentry/sentry-javascript/blob/master/MIGRATION.md) to learn more about breaking changes.

## Step 2: Configure

The main configuration should happen as early as possible in your app's lifecycle. Typically that means in your `main.ts` file.
In addition, you'll need to register some providers to fully instrument your application.

> ### Initialize The SDK

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Initialize the SDK
```

export class AppModule {}
```

> The `Sentry.createErrorHandler` function initializes a Sentry-specific `ErrorHandler` that automatically sends errors caught by Angular to Sentry. Learn how to further configure Sentry's `ErrorHandler` behavior <PlatformLink to="./features/error-handler">here</PlatformLink>.

Reviewer: I suggest removing this paragraph as it already explains things more in-depth than needed for a QS guide (IMO). If the /features/error-handler page is important, you could add it to the Next Steps list

<Alert>

> 

Reviewer: "If your angular app is configured for SSR" -> "If your Angular app is configured for SSR"

Reviewer: Ah, this does not show correctly -- let me know if you can't locate this :)

<OnboardingOption optionId="performance">

> <Expandable title="Alternative TraceService Setup" permalink="true">

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<Expandable title="Alternative TraceService setup" permalink="true">
```

      setTimeout(() => {
        throw new Error("Sentry Test Error");
      }, 99);
    });
  }
}
```

Open the page in a browser and click the button to trigger a frontend error and performance trace.

</OnboardingOption>

### View Captured Data in Sentry

Now, head over to your project on [Sentry.io](https://sentry.io/) to view the collected data (it takes a couple of moments for the data to appear).

<PlatformContent includePath="getting-started-verify-locate-data" />

## Next Steps

At this point, you should have integrated Sentry into your Angular application and should already be sending data to your Sentry project.

Now's a good time to customize your setup and look into more advanced topics. Our next recommended steps for you are:

- Extend Sentry to your backend using one of our [SDKs](/)
- Continue to <PlatformLink to="/configuration">customize your configuration</PlatformLink>
- Make use of <PlatformLink to="/features">Angular-specific features</PlatformLink>
- Learn how to <PlatformLink to="/usage">manually capture errors</PlatformLink>

<Expandable permalink={false} title="Are you having problems setting up the SDK?">

> - Find various topics in <PlatformLink to="/troubleshooting">Troubleshooting</PlatformLink>

Reviewer: Let's also add a link to the installation wizard guide (like here https://docs.sentry.io/platforms/javascript/guides/nextjs/manual-setup/)

If you encountered issues with setting up Sentry manually, [try our installation wizard](/path)
